>> Mike North: So this commands are gonna
get kind of vague and cumbersome.
The conventional way to do this is
to use a configuration file instead.
So in my source folder,
I'm gonna create a file site.
In the hello-ts folder, I'm gonna
create a file called tsconfig.json.
>> Mike North: And we're gonna look at
the various things you can do here to
set it up.
There are two things you need to think
about when configuring the compiler.
Number one is defining
which files are the inputs.
And you can do that either by
specifying a list of files, or
my preference is include,
which lets you specify some globs.
You seen globs before like star.ts or
something.
One valid glob is everything
in source folder.
Right, so that's number one.
What are we compiling?
The second option is,
how are we compiling it?
What are the compiler options?
So to get an equivalent result
of what we were just looking at,
we would do module commonjs, target.
And VS Code gives you some,
there's a JSON schema behind this file
that'll give you the allowed values for
this.
So we'll pick es2017, and
just for fun I'm actually gonna put
the output in a different directory.
Put it in the lib folder.
And this would make it really easy to sort
of to publish only the compiled output.
If this were a library,
I'd wanna publish that to npm so
that JavaScript and TypeScript
consumers alike, can import my code.
They don't have to be
able to read ts files.
So now I can just run tsc.
Everything looks good, and
I should, after refreshing here,
have a lib folder with
this index.js in it.
So this is great.
So I could almost think of it as,
if I delete our first attempt here.
I could think of us,
like our source folder has a ts file,
our lib folder has the js output.
I could check the source folder into Git,
and I could only publish the lib folder,
because we really only care
about the compiled output.
And you'd keep things very
well organized in that way.
So this is great.
One problem I see though, we have
all this great type information and
the stuff that I would ask my users to
run is missing this type information.
Now, it's necessary for
me to provide an option to not use type
information because people might write
JavaScript apps that depend on this code.
But I wanna make sure I provide
some other stuff on top of that.
So we're gonna say declaration true and
SourceMap true.
Run the compiler again and we should see
some new files pop up in the lib folder.
One of them is a .d.ts file, right?
Same file name but
it's .d.ts instead of .js.
And this, if you look at it, it looks kind
of like a function with no implementation,
we can see that the names
of my arguments are there.
We can see that we have types for
the arguments.
This, we'll learn in a moment, but
it happens to be the way you represent
the return type of the function.
But nothing in here describes how you
would actually add a and b together.
And nothing describes that we're waiting
half a second before returning that.
So this is a type declaration
file that is meant
to layer right on top of the JavaScript,
that it represents.
And if you're using a TypeScript
aware editor, like VS Code,
it's going to read this and
kind of match it with that JavaScript and
understand that these are the types that
are meant to go along with this code,
which is what is run in order
to get the value we're after.
The other file is a source map, right?
So, this is what would let us,
if you put break points in your code,
it's what would, in your debugger,
map that break point back to
the original TypeScript source.
So you kind of feel as if you're
debugging through TypeScript code,
when in fact, that is not what's running.
What's running is the JavaScript.
I can close by giving you
another example config here.
So this is a more complicated one.
The compiler has native support for react.
So it can pass JSX.
Can understand that if you call your files
TSX, that's like a TypeScript react file.
But you don't need anything
other than the TypeScript
compiler in order to check that.
Strict, setting strict to
true is really important.
You may wanna have strict as false,
it's default
as your sort of Moving from
JavaScript to TypeScript.
The approach I'll show you involves
starting with the loose configuration and
then tightening it up.
But ultimately,
you wanna end up in a place where you've
got some of these strict
features turned on.
Forbidding implicit any,
that's also important.
Implicit anys are like wild card.
They're places where the compiler
couldn't figure things out by itself.
And it's kind of a place
where any type is allowed.
And to put that in a more pessimistic way,
it's a place where you have
no type safety, right?
The TypeScript compiler can check and
compile regular JavaScript.
And if you are interested in
learning more about this,
check out the Visual Studio Code
course on FrontEnd Masters.
You can use JSdoc comments and
say that this function has an argument and
it is of type string and
here is the description and
the compiler will actually
read that as type information.
So even if you are in a position
where you can't actually switch
to TS files, you can still use
the TypeScript compiler to check and
make sure that your code kind
of lines up in a type-safe way.
And we already talked about the target
environment, and they regularly add
features, and keep pace with new drafts
of the JavaScript specification.
So async and await were things
that were added recently.
I expect they will do something about
some of the new stuff, project fields.
As things are added to
the official JavaScript spec,
you'll see them added as a new target.
>> Mike North: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Do you have a recommendation
for if you wanted to support,
say, I think you said ES3 was like IA6.
>> Mike North: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: If you wanted the support to
say like IE or all them, or
you didn't want to support IE at all,
unless their targets.
>> Mike North: Yep, good quesiton there.
So really, can I ask you to
refine your question there?
Are you thinking about using
Babel with typescript?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Mike North: So that,
using Babel with TypeScript that
would reduce TypeScript to really
just the checker,
not the thing it's producing the output.
And the way I would recommend setting that
up, would be have TypeScript emit very,
very, very modern JavaScript, and
let Babel take it the rest of the way.
You already have something that
can take regular JavaScript and
target like with using Babel preset and
you can just list your browsers, right?
And say, I care about the last
two versions of Chrome.
And that library actually keeps
up to date with Chrome, and
will basically remove that
responsibility from you and
your team in terms of keeping track of
what feature should I enable and what not?
So I would say,
leave your target as ESNext maybe.
Now, as projects get really big,
sometimes there are language features
that just are not appealing to include.
For example, at LinkedIn we
have an app that enabling async
in await would be tough,
just because at every await
we have to polyfill using regenerator or
something like that.
And this starts to get expensive,
it actually increases
the asset size quite a bit.
So I would leave all of that in
the hands of lending tools and Babel.
And if you're just using the compiler
as a static analysis tool, well,
leave your target set at ESNext.